ISHTAR - Beta 2 version installation guide
For this beta test version, ISHTAR is being distributed as a Windows-only VST3 plugin - this means it needs to run in a VST3 capable host such as Cubase, Cantabile or many other DAWs. If you don't already have a suitable host installed, it works fine in the free Cantabile Lite host, available at
https://www.cantabilesoftware.com/free-vst-host
which also has an onscreen keyboard so you can play it without a MIDI keyboard connected to your computer.
The final version will also be available as a Mac AU plugin. I'm undecided about a standalone version - I don't think many people will use it, and it involves another layer of licensing to enable ASIO output. This plugin version uses the audio drivers already present in your host.
ISHTAR Beta 2 is distributed as a file called ISHTAR-Beta2. It's a compressed .zip file. On your computer Windows may be set up to hide the .zip extension at the end of the file name, or it may show it.
Click the download link I sent you. The file ISHTAR-Beta2 will be saved to your Downloads folder (some browsers ask where to save it first).  Right-click on it and choose Extract All... from the menu, then click Extract in the window that appears.
A new folder called ISHTAR-Beta2 opens, containing a folder called ISHTAR.vst3, a program called Install ISHTAR, and three PDFs: this guide, the ISHTAR Quickstart, and a small surprise. (If no window opens, look for the new ISHTAR-Beta2 folder in the same place as the downloaded file - it will be next to the zipped version.)
Important: don't skip the Extract All step. If you just double-click the zipped file, it looks like a normal folder, but the installer won't work from inside it.
Double click on Install ISHTAR. Windows may show a security warning about the file coming from an unknown publisher: this is to be expected, Bill Gates has no idea who I am. Click whatever you need to install it anyway. There might also be a "Do you want to allow this app to make changes to your computer?" Yes you do: the only change it will make is to install the plugin. Hopefully this will be followed by a black window saying "ISHTAR was installed successfully". Press any key to close it. Job done.
After installation you'll find the folder C:\Program Files\Common Files\VST3 - look in there and you should see the ISHTAR.vst3 folder, this time with a splendid custom icon.
Next time you start up your host, it should scan for plugins. ISHTAR should end up in the SYNTH category, if your host arranges plugins by type.
Then you can do whatever your host usually needs you to do to launch an instrument plugin and hey presto, there you are.
Patch Storage: At present, ISHTAR comes with a small set of "factory" (ha!) patches lovingly crafted by me, baked into the plugin. When you save your own patch, ISHTAR will create a new folder in your Documents folder called ISHTAR, with a User Patches folder inside, and save it there. The saved patches are text files, you can open them in an editor and see a list of parameters and values. I'd love to include some of your creations in the final release version, so please email me any that you don't mind sharing, with "created by..." in the notes field.
